# ocaml-SDL3
# OCaml Bindings to the SDL3 library

[SDL3](https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL3/FrontPage) is the new version
(first release 2025) of the famous SDL library. ("A cross-platform
development library designed to provide low level access to audio,
keyboard, mouse, joystick, and graphics hardware via
OpenGL/Direct3D/Metal/Vulkan. ")

The `ocaml-SDL3` project (`opam` name is just `sdl3`) aims at giving
access to (almost) all SDL3 functions from an `ocaml` program, by
creating bindings via the `ctypes` library. The compiled `ocaml`
program will dynamically load the SDL3 library at runtime.

These bindings are "automatically" generated by analyzing the SDL
headers thanks to the `clang` library. The generator itself is
currently written in Python (alas! I was not aware of `clangml` when I
started the project) and is not part of this repository.

# Warning! early stage of developpment!

_Very_ few has been tested yet. Because the game is to try to write
everything "automatically", the overall structure is weird at many
places, and the quality is far from a manually corrected API like
`tsdl` (which provides bindings for SDL2).

_But_, it seems to be usable for some examples (see the `bin`
directory). However, **use at your own risk!** Core dumped
possible. Overall organization may change. Many signatures should be
improved.

# Install

Currently we are based on SDL 3.4.12. However, you can do with another
version: unless in debug mode, your code should work as long as you
only use functions that are covered by 3.4.12 and by your installed
version.

To install 3.4.12, For instance, do
```
git clone https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL.git vendored/SDL
cd vendored/SDL
git checkout release-3.4.12
```
and then follow build instructions.


# Try examples

```bash
cd bin
export SDL3_LIBRARY=SDL/build/libSDL3.so
```
(adjust `SDL3_LIBRARY` to your correct location)


## Webcam example

```bash
dune exec ./camera.exe
```

This should open your webcam and show the content in a window

## Loading PNG, animating sprite, typing debug text, and pixel drawing example

```bash
dune exec ./example.exe
```

This should show a bouncing ball and draw some pixels in a straight
line. It also demonstrates using debug text and event loop.

# Documentation

TODO...I still need to generate the `sdl3.mli` file!!!

But the original
[SDL3 doc](https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL3/APIByCategory) is the main
source and should be sufficient in most cases.

In order to find the ocaml name corresponding to an SDL function, see
[the list of bound functions](https://github.com/sanette/ocaml-sdl3/blob/main/lib/bound_functions.csv).
